---
title: "MONTRAGE: Monitoring Training for Attribution of Generative Diffusion Models"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-11-28-MONTRAGE
excerpt: 'This paper proposes MONTRAGE, a framework for monitoring training for attribution of generative diffusion models.'
date: 2024-10-04
venue: 'ECCV (Accepted)'
paperurl: 'https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=eoxiMqQAAAAJ&hl=en'

---
Diffusion models, which revolutionized image generation, are facing challenges related to intellectual property. These challenges arise when a generated image is influenced by one or more copyrighted images from the training data. Hence, pinpointing influential images from the training dataset, a task known as data attribution, becomes crucial for the clarity of content origins. We introduce MONTRAGE, a pioneering data attribution method. Unlike existing approaches that overlook the internal workings of the training process, MONTRAGE integrates a novel technique to monitor generations throughout the training via internal model representations. It is tailored for customized diffusion models, where training access is a practical assumption. This approach, coupled with a new loss function, enables enhanced accuracy as well as granularity of the attributions. The advantage of MONTRAGE is evaluated in two granularity levels: Semantic concept (including mix-concept images) and individual image, showing promising results. This underlines MONTRAGE's role towards solving copyright concerns in AI-generated digital art and media while enriching the understanding of the generative process.

[To be published]('https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=eoxiMqQAAAAJ&hl=en')
